# MODEL1106200000: Chang2011_MetabolicNetworkReconstruction_ChlamydomonasReinhardtii

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1106200000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1106200000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is from the article:  
**Metabolic network reconstruction of Chlamydomonas offers insight into light-driven algal metabolism.**   
Roger L Chang, Lila Ghamsari,, Ani Manichaikul, Erik F Y Hom, Santhanam
Balaji, Weiqi Fu, Yun Shen, Tong Hao, Bernhard Ø Palsson, Kourosh Salehi-
Ashtiani & Jason A Papin _Molecular Systems Biology_ 7:518; 2011 [doi:10.1038/
msb.2011.52](http://www.nature.com/msb/journal/v7/n1/full/msb201152.html)  
**Abstract:**   
Metabolic network reconstruction encompasses existing knowledge about an
organism's metabolism and genome annotation, providing a platform for omics
data analysis and phenotype prediction. The model alga Chlamydomonas
reinhardtii is employed to study diverse biological processes from
photosynthesis to phototaxis. Recent heightened interest in this species
results from an international movement to develop algal biofuels. Integrating
biological and optical data, we reconstructed a genome-scale metabolic network
for this alga and devised a novel light-modeling approach that enables
quantitative growth prediction for a given light source, resolving wavelength
and photon flux. We experimentally verified transcripts accounted for in the
network and physiologically validated model function through simulation and
generation of new experimental growth data, providing high confidence in
network contents and predictive applications. The network offers insight into
algal metabolism and potential for genetic engineering and efficient light
source design, a pioneering resource for studying light-driven metabolism and
quantitative systems biology.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novère N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


